<h1>Brief Overview of Motivations, Actions, Future Plans and other Comments about my Movie Reviews Classifier</h1>
<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p>This repository contains the scripts I developed and data I collected to produce a Naive Bayes ML model which can predict whether a movie-critic review is positive or negative. The model was trained on 56000 movie-critic reviews across 400 different movies scraped from Rotten Tomatoes and ultimately achieved a prediction accuracy of 72%, as well as f1 scores of 76% and 66%, for positive and negative review classifications respectively. </p>
<p>See 'review_classifier.ipynb' in 'machine learning and evaluation' for the final product, with a few examples demonstrated.</p>
<h2>Motivations</h2>
<p>The purpose of the project was to apply my programming skills practically to real world data and further explore my passion and develop my skills in data mining, web scraping, data preprocessing and machine learning, working with libraries covered i my university coursework such as beautiful soup, pandas and nltk.</p>
<h2>Additional Comments</h2>
<p>Whilst the majority of the coding was done independently, I did leverage Chat-GPT and AI to enhance my workflow, particularly when discovering and using libraries that I did not know previously, notably Selenium. I believe that AI will only become more integrated into our daily lives and so a developer who is able to capitalise on such new technologies will thrive in such an environment.</p>
<p>Moreover, whilst Chat-GPT assisted me in writing some code, it made no contribution to the problem solving, fine tuning and design requirements of coming up with and executing this project. Furthermore, AI cannot also understand ethical and legal obligations of a programmer, such as IP and ethical web scraping.</p>
<h2>Future Plans and Reflection</h2>
<p>Despite the huge amount of progress made to this project. It is clearly incomplete, and intentionally at that. Whilst the data mining and scraping scripts were near complete. The evaluation portion could have certainly been explored further in depth, and could have also incorporated exploration and visualisation of the data, i.e., a confusion matrix or box plots to visualise the distribution of data. Lastly, the documentation could have also certainly been more detailed and organised.</p>
<p>This is because this project is not supposed to be an end product, but rather an exploration of a concept, to see if classification of movie reviews trained on past data shows any promise (as well as a test of my capabilities). From my accuracy and f1 results, I strongly believe that the data involved can create an effective ML classifier and that it is within the scope of my skills. </p>
<p>As you read this text, 2.0 is in development! Feel free to reach out to me at andydaiatwork@gmail.com if you have any questions or would like to discuss the changes I am implementing in 2.0.</p>
